are you there hi thank you so much for
being I see you I see you
great thank you so much for being here
we really appreciate it my pleasure
okay so lay it on us right how bad is it
how worried should we be well I think
you could look at this like a tsunami
that's hit the virus itself in the
social distancing and then what are the
consequences in terms of the wreckage
when you look at it and I think you have
to think of that as incomes and balance
sheets you know so it was a tremendous
income hit and then the balance sheets
armed losses and what and who has what
savings and so on and then how is that
dealt with and in order to understand
that you have to realize that there are
these holes these holes in income and
the holes in the balance sheets and then
you have to realize that there is the
production of money and credit and who
produces that money in credit okay the
money and credit comes in different
flavors there is US dollar money and
credit there is Europe euro dollar money
and credit and so when you look at the
world and you're seeing it you're seeing
a situation that is the same has existed
really in the nineteen thirty to forty
five period in that now we're seeing the
production of a lot of debt a lot of
borrowing by the government we're seeing
zero interest rates and not the
traditional kind of money monetary
policy but the producing of a lot of
money and credit so the Federal Reserve
is buying the Treasuries debt and the
Treasury is getting that money to my
mostly Americans in some imperfect
a remarkably large way and the Europeans
are doing the same in their way that
Bank is a smaller Bank because the world
lives with about 70 percent dollars and
only a small percent euro and they will
produce there's four there's and there
aren't many banks around the world and
so the rest of the world is going to
have gaps holes that won't be filled so
if you think about that and you say
American printing of money and the
borrowing will leave us with a lot of
debt and monetization that's something
interesting to talk about and we need to
talk about that who will pay these bills
and how will that be shared will be
something we need to talk about but you
will know that you will get that money
and that the Europeans will get their
versions of that money but we are in a
new world and that world is most similar
to the 1932 45 world and a lot of the
world will not get that money in credit
so there'll be a big differentiation as
to which entities benefit and which
entities don't and there'll be a big
collaboration as to how we will deal
with that bill and who will end up with
what a big question of wealth
distribution and all of that so if
that's an that's the big thing that's
going to be happening how confident are
you that some of that collaboration can
happen right now we're now at one of
those defining moments that I've seen
repeatedly the 1930 30 to 45 period if
you go back in history there's nothing
new to this and it's a defining moment
in terms of how people are with each
other so when you look at it will people
come together or - when it comes down to
it really will there be a taking care of
oneself and what is that define and how
will that go that'll be I think a
defining moment so I look at these
histories if I
can take a minute I'd like to just paint
a template for you
that takes us you know over the last
thousand years the things that have
happened over and over again
there was one pattern that I'd like to
convey may I take a moment and do that
absolutely there are four things that
are the driving forces of our economy
and our lifestyle and wealth and the
first and most powerful is is
productivity which comes from people
learning and inventing and doing things
well just as Marco described okay and it
grows slowly you know one or two or
three percent a year it grows slowly and
it's not volatile because knowledge is
in volatile but it grows and that raises
our living standards over a period of
time then there's a short-term debt
cycle the short-term debt cycle is you
know recessions and expansions and booms
and recessions that that they last about
eight ten years and then there's a long
term debt cycle and that long-term debt
cycle which goes on about once every 50
to 75 years is when you begin a new type
of money and a new type of credit that
began in 1945 the New World Order at the
end of World War two what the and with
the Bretton Woods monetary system
created a new monetary system in 1945 a
new money so they wiped out pretty much
the old money or they largely disposed
of it and they began anew and that's the
new world order which was the American
world order and we have seen it and
still 70 percent of the money and credit
that exists in the economy is running by
dollars and what you have traditionally
is the breakdown and then the fourth
influence is politics and politics is
largely how we deal with each other
can't and there's internal politics and
there's external politics the internal
politics is how do you deal with the
wealth gap how do you deal with the
values gap do you have
a common mission do we have an American
dream that we can agree on and that
we're pursuing that together or do you
fight over wealth and and so on and so
when you look at history
that's what revolutions are in their
various ways and there's always a
revolution in one of these sometimes
those are peaceful revolutions and so
sometimes they're disruptive in like and
but it's a wealth shift and that needs
to take place so in nineteen what the
Roosevelt shifted policies and James
taxes and so on in that way and then in
other countries there was that turning
over democracy Hitler came to power
because of that gap so how people deal
with each other internally there's also
external politics so that politics means
between countries and you have a
situation when there's a rising power
challenging existing power there is
competition and there is a risk of war
and so how they deal with each other so
that they're whether there's a greater
good or whether they are fighting with
each other is the defining moment there
are always stress tests these big stress
tests they come along once about once
every 75 years and and when they happen
and this is a stress test and I think
that what you're going to see is as how
we deal with each other there's enough
wealth to go around but what do you do
when you're outside the ring of support
now let's say that of the u.s. dollar
and what what is that going to be like
for those entities or if you're within
the ring of support how will that build
be divided and how will we be with each
other I think we're going to have to
reconsider who has what what what is it
about education and so on
so that's what we're in I think and I
want to get to because you've written
extensively about how capitalism needs
to change and some of the things that we
should be thinking about and doing and I
want to definitely get to that a little
bit later on
but I am curious right now I mean just
from a practical level do you think that
we're headed into a global depression
yes but I want to be careful about what
I use the word you know like to be
though the word is an evocative word I'd
be scary and so on so what do you mean
by a depression okay
something like happened in the 1930 so
just to repeat 1929 to 1932 there was a
fall in the economy and a very
double-digit unemployment rates and a
magnitude a fall in the economy like
about 10% do I think we're in that yes
how was that dealt with 1933 what they
did is they printed a lot of money then
and the government came out with the
same type of programs that we're having
now yes okay same thing zero interest
rates hit zero same thing okay same
dynamics and then there is the that
money causes an expansion from that
point how long does it take for the
stock market to exceed its highs or how
long does it take for the economy to
exceed its former highs a long time okay
do I think that's what we're in yes
that's what we're in we've seen that
happen repeatedly in history you saw
many many times it's just the most
recent one and there's a structure to
that so yes this is not a recession this
is a breakdown and an operation that I'm
just describing in terms of how its
dealt with the production of money and
credit and all of that that's what we're
in and so you've talked about there's
sort of four levers to recovery after a
depression cutting spending also known
as austerity debt restructuring or
forgiveness redistribution of wealth
through taxes potentially and printing
if money some of these things you've
mentioned will those things get us out
of this situation since as you you feel
it's happened before
but how would you think about balancing
these tools right now those are the
tools through since eternity basically
since recorded history those are the
ones that operate it and I think what
you're going to see is a combination
you're seeing of printing money and
redistribution and and I think it will
last
these things happen pretty quickly there
they last maybe a couple of three years
in terms of that process and then you
have a rebuilding and they're dealt with
with creativity the sort of the greatest
force through time is inventiveness
human inventiveness adaptability so
you're going to see these restructurings
happen and you're going to see the kind
of inventiveness that you just saw up
from Marco okay and it's the power of
that adaptation that is the greatest
power I did a study which is on LinkedIn
if anyone wants to see it and it takes
it goes back 500 years and it shows real
GDP in other words the Kannamma CAC
titty going back there and what and
there's a line and you don't see these
depressions as we're calling them even
on that line they barely Wiggles when
you go into it and you look at the that
piece that's what it looks like GDP
Falls ten percent unemployment goes up
and it passes and because the greatest
force is the force of adaptation and
inventiveness if we can operate well
together so that's what I think it's
going to look like over this period of
time it'll pass
if the world will be very different
there'll be a new world order but it
will pass and will be invented because
what we're dealing with now is just
money and credit money and credit is
just digital I mean there's no there was
real good services you know that those
are real but everything
is just accounting and so when you
change the digits and you work those
things out and you work yourself through
that takes you know a couple of years at
most kind of and then you come back into
a restructured environment and it could
be said that it is really healthy in
many ways because it is a stress test
because if you look at history people
have gotten sometimes they get weaker or
they're not prepared to in many ways
weaker in terms of maybe they don't
build enough savings and they operate
that or maybe they emphasize luxuries
over necessities it's a reorienting type
of experience that in many ways makes us
healthy even appreciating the basics of
life right just popping in here with the
questions from our online audience I
mean the main question early on was just
how difficult do you think you know the
days ahead are for the economy and
you've answered that very vigorously
like using that word depression is
that's a very strong word and it's it's
tell me if I have this right it feels to
me like what you just said there is
stronger than most people in the market
seem to believe the market is behaving
as if you know the we've had the bad
news and it's kind of one comeback and a
lot of people seem to think that within
I don't know a year we'll be kind of be
back where you are you're saying no it's
going to take longer does that imply
that there is basically a sort of some
systemic shocks that the market hasn't
yet fully seen perhaps to do with the
abit of inability of some players to
handle the extreme levels of debt that
are piling up right now as people can't
work I can't speak for what everybody's
thinking out there the you know the
markets are off depending on what market
and depending on what country you're in
you know something in the vicinity of 25
to 45 or 50 percent depending what
currency you're managing and and so if
you're talking about emerging markets
they are worse because they're not going
to get as much and so on I
can describe what I see okay we see
something like 20 trillion dollars of
losses okay we see so there if you work
that through and you say you don't have
money and you don't have credit your
business can fail you know this we see
this all around us so there can be
failures when there can't be payments
and so the question is who gets what
check to make those payments and get
past it but we're going to have a giant
restructuring of the of the io u--'s and
we're going to work out when hospitals
our bro can go broke because this is
terribly costly for hospitals and they
will not fully recover their losses
hospitals will go broke even though we
know that they need them so when you go
you have to go entity by entity through
this and then you'll go through the
process of who will pay so this is not
you know some people mistake this as
there is a crib iris and the virus may
come and go okay maybe we never see it
again
I don't think that's likely but I mean
the people who tell me say not who knows
but if it never came back again there
will be those who are broke and and and
while I've lost some income we're going
to change how we operate and in a way
the the supply lines are going to change
in other words what self-sufficiency
what is self-sufficiency now going to
mean do we have enough of this and that
we're going to restructure our economy
and restructure the financial system in
ways that we mean we are not going to go
back to the way it was so do you see
systemic threats to the financial
industry as greater greater than Hoffman
did in 2008
yeah this is bigger than what happened
in 2008 I'll distinguish it in 2008 we
had banks it's the same thing meaning
you have a certain amount of leverage
things go down too much leverage means
you're broke in accounting terms
so then you look around and you say who
are the systemically important entities
that you don't want to go broke because
do you want to lose those banks at this
time and then you can make up money and
make up credit and you can keep them
alive in some way and you did it with
banks and through the banks there were
the mortgages and that's what it looked
like this is more complex than that
because there are the banks and then
there are those all of those that are
beyond banks although the little
businesses all of those in all the
different places that are beyond it and
it's a bigger crisis and we have a less
effective monetary policy because
interest rates declines have reached
their limit and just buying financial
assets by the central bank and buying
the normal financial assets won't work
they have to buy the debt of the
government and the government or the
many governments have to be effective in
getting buying power and production to
those who need it around the world
I can also one last question and then
I'll be back at the end of the hour or
you know to be back back to you but
though given how bleak that is people
are asking what kinds of industries
organizations companies have the best
prospects of bribing going forward well
that's you see that's the that's the
beauty of it um there are two types
basically there are those that are state
stable meat and potatoes not leverage
kind of companies you know the Campbell
Soup equivalent you know like
everybody's going to use them all time
kind of thing and then there are the
innovators the innovators like we're
talking about Orko you had Marco on the
floor and that new innovation those who
can adapt well and innovate well and
don't have balance sheet problems in
other words they have strong balance
sheets so they're going to be able to
play the game without having that they
will be great winners and so there's
always new inventions new creativity
that
is the new adaptation that that becomes
a company and an entrepreneur and
they're going to do great plus the stuff
that we're always going to need those
are the things that are going to do
great Thank You Ryan
for you thank you Chris um so I guess
I'd like to stay with the market for a
minute obviously it's something that
interests so many people and the state
of the market doesn't always correlate
with what's going on in the economy and
the market and its players have changed
so much over the past you know 70 years
or so 70 90 years so many more
algorithms and machines and passive
event investing and how do you think
that sort of affects how the market is
behaving right now how it's going to
recover over the next you know few years
as the economy recovers the the basic
fundamentals of money credit crisis who
has what income who is what expenses who
has what balance sheet and how do we
deal with money and credit those things
which people often lose sight of because
they happen only once in one's lifetime
this period you have to go back to the
1930s is the last year period those
fundamentals of what a bank is and the
Penn associated process on have existed
all through time then it's then it's
like technology changes technology
evolves and so the capacity to take
one's thinking and to put them in
algorithms we've been doing this for 25
years the way we operate is to take a
principle how would I deal with that
situation and write it down put it into
an algorithm and then because the
capacity to think has been radically
enhanced the
the human mind has a capacity problem
it's unique in invest inventing but it
is it can only process so much of so
time so when worked in partnership with
the with the computer which has the
capacity to take that thinking and
replicate it and do all of that
leveraged thinking and think in an
advanced way that is the advancements of
our time and so you're seeing that so
when do you think algorithmic it's you
know you got to break it down as to what
it is is it sensible cause-effect
relationships that are being dealt with
it all comes back to do you have
understanding and are you successfully
betting on a cause-effect relationship
because that's the only way you're going
to make money so but but the computer
can do it and process that thing in a
much more advanced way so that's what's
going on there will be people who will
make the mistake of just applying
machine learning to the markets and that
generally that won't work because of
certain things I guess I should explain
because yes so on algorithmic
decision-making there are two ways you
can get your algorithm you can specify
the instruction to the computer and have
it follow that and that'll a neighbor
enable your thinking or you can have the
algorithm come from putting a lot of
data into the computer and asking
computer what would you do and what your
algorithm the key difference between
those is do you have understanding of
the cause-effect relationships you must
have understanding of the cause-effect
relationships to know what you to
believe in because you can't always get
that in your sample size for example
what's happening now you could not have
run your computer and have it in your
sample size because you would have to go
back to the 1930s to have an analogous
period so what you will it is how you do
that but the capacity to learn
to invent and to get you know that
leverage in decision-making is greater
than ever before and that's the power of
our time some will do it well some will
do it poorly but it really comes down to
do you have the understanding of those
cause-effect relationships so that you
know how to place the right there but
that's that's very different from the
passive investment market which is such
a huge part of it now and that's where
most people you know the average person
has their money and I know that
everything's changing day to day but I
also know that everyone's gonna have
this question on their minds so I'm
going to ask you I'm not going to ask
for specific investment advice but
everyone's thinking about their 401ks
you have any general thoughts about how
people should you know approach this
time period with that that kind of money
yeah first of all an investor must
understand that they probably will not
be able to play the game well they
probably will not be able to decide how
to move in and out of things in order to
be successful in the markets is more
difficult than getting a gold medal in
the Olympics you wouldn't think about
competing in the Olympics but everybody
thinks they can compete in the markets
but there's more money competing it's
like a zero-sum game and there's more
money doing it and the worst thing you
could do is be I think you can time all
of these movements if you could I
guarantee the games a tough game to
tighten we put hundreds of millions of
dollars into the game every year and
it's tough so what the individual
investor needs to do is know how to
diversify well so the word that I would
know how to diversify well and in a
balanced way the greatest mistake of all
investors is to think that what has done
well lately is a better investment
rather than more expensive and the
greatest
what is done worse lately is the worst
investment get me out of it
and rather than it's cheap and unless
you know how to deal with the
differences of those which most people
don't they're going to be in trouble so
understand that wealth total amount of
wealth in the world essentially doesn't
change very much okay and that one thing
goes up another thing goes down and to
know how to diversify to diversify it in
asset classes to diversify it in
countries to diversify it in currencies
to know how to diversify that well so
that you have wealth diversification is
important do not think that cash is a
safe investment when you most people
think
look I just want safety and those bonds
aren't given give me an interest rate
and so on so where do I get safe cash is
a seductive investment because it
doesn't have as much volatility but it
taxes you and your buying power about 2%
a year and so and that so cash is almost
always the worst investment so you have
to think about that you should think a
little bit unconventionally do you have
a little bit of gold do you have a
little bit of acid in case this monetary
system breaks down and money's redefined
do you have a little bit of that I can't
get into all the different ways that one
can diversify well I try to convey those
things in my books or my or you know on
post post on LinkedIn particularly but I
but I would say diversify well be humble
don't market time and be conscious of
the dangers of cash right that's great
advice um I want to ask one more sort of
big picture question before we sort of
get into how we should fix capitalism we
can talk about that in a minute
um tackle that one but I have been
reading your series on LinkedIn the
changing world order it's really
fascinating I'm sure is what you think
about there's
been sort of this retreat from
globalization as something we should all
get behind and I'm curious what you
think about that in terms of our
recovery this seems like something that
is going to require a coordinated effort
you know financially spiritually in so
many different ways if we retreat from
globalization right now does that make
everything harder going forward if we
retreat from globalization which we
certainly will do it will certainly make
things very hard and so we get down to
the prep the that comparing idealism
with reality
so when you say global globalization and
global it will that who will write what
checks to people in countries that will
be outside of their domain and and there
are large numbers of those people you
know my wife and I are trying to help
people in Connecticut and you know I can
read a lot rattle off all that is and
what's what a job that is and and so on
and so in when you have congresses and
presidents and they start to say who
will we help and how will that be and
what will that mean it gets down to real
practical questions and the reality is a
lot of those people won't be helped and
then will you'll deal with how will they
behave for each other or one country's
vulnerabilities on other countries
opportunities in such times their this
is the case because you know Graham
Allison a reminder wrote a book about
the vicinities said trapped and he
remind us over the last 500 years there
have been 16 countries in which there's
been a rivalry of an empire challenging
another in 12 of those cases there have
been Wars because at the end of the day
there's not even a global legal system
power is the is what is the currency and
of that so when you get into what how do
you resolve a dispute as to
who gets what that becomes a very
complicated question so I'm a I'm a
globalist I mean meaning I have a dream
and a wish that the best of the best can
operate together and work together for
that common good and so on but it is
it's time because we're in an
interconnected fragmented world the
fragmentation of this can I depend on
somebody else to give me something I
need or can I depend on them not taking
advantage of me no you can't make those
dependencies anymore and that exists
within countries as well as between
countries yeah I mean it sounds like you
know you talk about productivity and the
importance of productivity for us all to
have a better life and it just seems
like on a global level the same should
hold true if we're all focused on being
more productive together and in that
interconnected way we'll all do better
as opposed to kind of hoarding one one
asset or one set of resources you're
you're certainly true that has always
been true but never more true than today
and at the same time read history and
understand the mechanics and and the
issues and the challenges of this this
separation began before we had this
isolation of the United States relative
to the rest of the world this.d
globalization began before we had this
that force there's more of it right and
it happened for reasons okay so don't
overlook those reasons and don't
overlook the reading of history just
because we wish it can happen if you
want to wish it happens it's all
everything is all dependent on the
behavior of those who have their level
on their hands on the levers of power I
would tell you like for example right
now I've been going to China for a long
time and
the Chinese in many ways are helping in
many ways things that are needed in this
crisis and and all that to even say that
is a politically challenging thing okay
because we're in a world that is so
fragmented that even to publicly say
thank you and thank you to many people
and many companies it's almost dangerous
to say thank you to those who are
helping because the world we're now in
an environment in which there are its
enemies and and who is evil and do you
fall into that category and so the
history of these is there's demonization
of different people okay now you must
see it around you it exists and so how
we come out of this will be how we
depend behave with each other yeah
that's such an important point and I
think all of us here would say thank you
to you know the different people helping
out in this situation we do need each
other I do want to get to this issue of
capitalism because when we we talked a
few days ago you mentioned and earlier
in this conversation as well how you
know this period of time we can emerge
stronger and better than before and
about a year ago you wrote a piece about
how capitalism needs to be reformed
focused a lot on the wealth gap the
growing wealth gap and the problems that
that's causing so what's our opportunity
here what changes can we make well you
know what I was what I was seeing was do
we want the outcomes that we are getting
that the system is producing do we have
what is our American dream
what is that we're not even almost
talking about that when I was growing up
so it again I brought I grew up I was
born 1949 right after the New World
order was created New World Order was
created in 1945 and I'm 45 and that was
when there was the breakdown of the
system and then we had a new world water
if we didn't have as much debt we came
back through the war and there was an
environment of equal opportunity and and
that notion of equal opportunity and
there was an American dream and there
was a harmony and a going through it
together and by the way if that's not a
one-off if you read histories you see
these people periods of collapse and
clash and fighting followed by these
periods of you know you were you read it
to construct the balance sheets you you
change the system and then you begin a
new system and you come back and you
work together and then I'm seeing around
me the children in school in education
systems and poor neighborhoods are
sharing they don't have adequate
resources there is no it
there's no excuse and so the idea that
the profit system can accomplish
everything is is not right because
resource allocation goes to those who
have the resource and so throughout all
history you go back hundreds of years
you see that any system works for those
who tend to control the system so let's
say we have a capitalist system and and
we have entrepreneurs and you acquire
money and and and all that and then
working with those in government and
they have a symbiotic relationship and
it works well for them so it's
self-perpetuating because the education
of those who are those is better than
the education of those who aren't those
so for example in our system the those
in the top forty percent on average
spend five times as much money on their
children's education then those are in
the bottom 60% and so it's becomes
self-perpetuating
and so when I look at that I'm saying
I'm a capitalist please understand I'm a
capitalist I believe in the
system I believe you can increase the
size of the pie and you could divide it
well and if we talk about how to do that
effectively we need to do it but there
comes a time that there needs reforms
and those reforms have to create
productivity it doesn't mean just give
money away it means how do you make
those people productive so that they are
also psychologically productive as well
as physically productive and producing
output you need to do that system and so
for reasons I wrote on that page that
that post-its on LinkedIn if people want
it that you need to restructure in it
now we are restructuring it okay in it
it's the UH neva table consequence of
what we're doing here we will come out
of that there's been a tremendous
transfer of wealth whether people
realize it or not through the production
of all of that borrowed money and all of
that producing of money that is a big
force we will come out of here and the
thing we will talk about over the next
couple of years and probably sooner
rather than later is how we do that
restructuring am I worried now is the
same as my worry then whether that will
be done in a civil bipartisan way that
will both increase the size of the pie
and divide it well rather than damage
the economy because you lose
productivity there are certain things
that are great investments education is
a great investment the more people you
have that are well educated and you have
equal education the more people you're
going to have who have a chance to
compete with each other and raise that
over a period of time it's a hell of
invent investment it will produce more
productivity than ever will cost if it's
done well but what happens is states and
localities think of it as a budget item
so they look at expenses and they penny
pinched on the education because if
you're in a rich town you make your kids
will get a good education and if you're
not and a large percentage of the
population is losing that so that has to
be engineered well so that they're
productive as well as divide the pie
well and
everybody believes that the system is
fair if we we can get there my
optimistic that we will get there you
know I don't know I would say I'm 60/40
pessimistic that will be good enough
with each other to do that but there's
that possibility this is our test this
is our stress test ray it's um there's
so much interest in this question of how
we emerge from this whether it's
genuinely possible to rebuild the
economy in a way that's fair to read one
last question this one's from my Twitter
feed do you think that the current
crisis is showing that low-paid and/or
unskilled workers are what holds
countries together even more so than
banks and hedge funds and if so as part
of the rebuilding can can we build an
economy that raises their interest hire
those the heroes are those kind of
people okay really but it takes it takes
it takes everyone okay
it takes the efficient allocation of
resources for as you probably have seen
behind the scenes we see those who
control a lot of resources being able to
make contribution we're giving 60,000
computers to poor students so that they
can learn you know the difference
between a rich and a poor student is
having a computer and have the ability
to learn and and I want to thank and
those who would be embarrassed and
almost afraid to hear it of how they
contributed to that process and at the
same time those other people people who
are everyday serving in so many ways so
it's good character and ended and as
that look like you know when they people
came back from war and they go to the
greatest generation it's that type of
character and that that brings our
country together but it H has to
recognize their roles in doing that so
there's a
CEO and then there's somebody who's
really a great hero on the front lines
and they better damn world work well
together so yeah and and then they have
to have usefulness and we've got to
appreciate them we have to establish
just the reality I think that there is a
level of basics faith it basic education
basic health care basic basics that you
cannot fall below okay otherwise when
you go below that level there is no
opportunity and it actually the
costliness of it in the form of crimes
and incarceration like like to bring it
personal we're our mission is to help
high school kids who are drop out of
high school and have jobs to get them in
that high school and through that in
jobs and we believe that we can do that
on save a lot of money because the
average rate of a cost of incarceration
depending it goes from about $40,000 a
year up to one hundred and twenty
thousand dollars a year depending on the
form and if you get them in and move
them to into a job you're going to save
a lot of money and we could do that
cost-effectively so - but
philanthropists can't do this alone
the amount of money is enormous so if
our country did those kinds of things I
think I think it'd be great well thank
you for that ray Cory what do you think
you got any other questions there will
you wrap up uh-huh no I think I think
we're good I mean I think we're gonna
get through it I guess is what we're
saying but we also have an opportunity
here to make some changes and do better
and emerge stronger and - as you said
take a look at things and the structures
that we have in place and and see where
we can improve but it's going to take a
collective action and cooperation yeah
I'm definitely inspired by the actions
that you're taking as a as a
philanthropist in this in this
mint and some of your peers you know
like there are they're amazing stories
out there I was really struck by a Jack
Dorsey's announcement yesterday of his
huge anthropic contribution and I mean
that that's awesome
but equally important by me since I was
early enough I was I'm kind of dismayed
in a way to hear you say that you're
6040 leaning pessimistic like it feels
like your voice in these conversations
that are going on in the corridors of
power and in it you know where the big
money is around whether this turns into
fundamentally cooperation between
countries and between companies and
between you know big money controllers
or whether it turns into a fist fight is
is so important right you know hearing
you talk about the gratitude we should
be feeling towards some aspects let's
say of what China has done like the
extent did you find yourself in
conversations like raising this trying
to take the view that no no no you're
yours you're needlessly sparking
friction here take a more generous for
you because it feels to me like there's
so much it's between how many people are
trying to nudge that type of
conversation versus the hostile fearful
conversation I I think there's a general
mistaken belief I communicate a lot with
the people that you're saying people in
positions of power of whether they're
both in government or other places and
so on and have the thing I think what
you basically have to realize is that
very few people are making decisions
based on the quality of the argument
that most people are most of those in
the have have a particular are in a war
of some kind or have a particular
objective and that the information that
comes out even in the in the media in
you know you could almost see which side
each media outlet or each person is on
how many people do
you really believe don't have a side
all that's almost everybody has their on
one side for another side and the idea
of being able to see things from both
sides and come together is in this time
and through history perceived as almost
being weak or a threat because you got
to get on one side or the other side and
so on and so it's not easy to do to you
know to just say out i'ma to all
the people and all and angina and an
example I would say thank you very much
you know how many respirators and masks
and and all these things that have come
but almost that's politically
challenging because there'll be people
out there and threatening why am i doing
this and people will be out there and
they will say okay he's a China lover or
he's an enemy he goes on the other side
because there will be people on the
other sides and those people and so I
think I'll turn to youth Kris you have a
forum bring in the other sides okay
bring in those that are those who let's
say have the most offensive policies
that you think that are in positions of
power and have that together so that you
can have thoughtful disagreement and I
got a believer in thoughtful
disagreement open thoughtful
disagreement to try to get it the right
answer and have collectiveness but it
isn't easy in this world oh well that's
a good challenge to us and I'm also a
believer in thoughtless disagreement
I think Corey work what passionate
disbelievers in the spreading of
irrational hatred like in sexually
irrational hatred and and I feel like
mistakes so high right now that if but
will you fight for that another words
will you when somebody is going to punch
back and what they're because this is
what's needed if somebody's going to
punch back because you're saying
something that's true and controversial
that'll be the test can you punch back
for collective you know decision-making
comment decision-making and then punch
back I'm gonna say punch I even say
fight back
absolutely okay if it means that we look
weak or we're a threat so so down well
beer because you know this is the moment
I mean we we everyone is impacting
everyone else we have a shot do not each
other to be our better selves and to
look at the stories of inspiration the
stories of humans reaching out to humans
of companies doing incredible things
letting go the profit motive for a
moment of countries trying to help each
other their stories about that we I
think we need to amplify some of those
stories more and we're certainly down to
do that we're trying to do that every
day and radii I loved hearing you talk
about some of the good things that
China's doing all the rest of it thank
you for your voice and for spending this
time and for being you know honest
vigorous with us thank you everyone
listening I appreciate a big damn deal
you know if you're if you're listening
sounded like you just got a warning that
this could be a multi-year recession
depression that's that's that's scary
and more than ever we need to be in this
together
as we've said again and again in
conclusion I know we're wrapping up yes
I believe this is a defining moment we
will get through it fine we will be
restructured in important ways so that's
fine and and and thank you for you know
sharing ideas which worth considering
you know thank you or any point if you
wanna i mean we've still got more days
to the week as there's an amazing does
program tomorrow we're going to take a
much more global look there that I'm
super excited about we have a report
from the head of labor net which is an
organization India looking at mobile
workers
who just a face in this horrific
situation right now where they they're
having to in the lockdown having to
maybe walk home hundreds of miles long
base police action it's it's we put a
report right from the front lines there
as to what that's I can a country with a
very different set of trade-offs they're
having to make between lockdown and
giving the most impoverished a chance
and and then a wide-ranging discussion
with Fareed Zakaria who you know has
this global view you you want to see
them on CNN he's got this very
broad-ranging
global view as to how to think about
this thing and to compare the different
responses of different countries I think
it's going to be an amazing conversation
as you to come back for that it's so
amazing you know we were talking about
this in a meeting this morning this is a
crisis that the whole world is going
through together and I think that's
what's so unusual about it and there's
just so much to dig into so much to
learn about how it's affecting everybody
in different ways so I'm glad we're
continuing Thank You Marilyn thank you
thank you Ray and you couldn't see you
can see a recording of this if you
didn't miss the whole thing by going
basically I think it's to go calm slash
and connect dot-com slash tech connects
and and if you want to look at Ray's
work on this just Google Ray Dalio
LinkedIn and there's a whole series of
resources there Dahlia with one ray
thank you so much well this this was
this was really really really
interesting thank you so much thanks all